The worst impact to the consumer is
actually going to be in spring of 2026
and all the way it's going to hang with
us until the rest of the back to school
of 2026.
[Music]
>> Hi everyone, I'm Gunjen Bannery
>> and I'm Miriam Gotfrieded
>> and this is WSJ's take on the week and
today we have a really big conversation
on retail. Before that Miriam though, it
sounds like this week has been all about
the AI trade and where we're kind of
headed. Yeah, I think people are feeling
maybe not quite as bullish about that as
they were last week.
>> It feels like investors are pausing a
little bit and thinking, hey, is
everything I was betting on in terms of
the upside, right, to companies, to the
economy, to people in in terms of AI,
has that run up too far? Are these
corners of the market a little
overvalued? And I think this is
something that happens with any big
trend, right? Like you had warehouses
for e-commerce. people were really
interested in investing in those. You
had, you know, like solar or wind, you
know, renewables, that was a big trend
for investing. And then people will bid
them up. They'll bid up the best assets
and then they'll realize, oh, maybe it's
gotten a little overheated. Maybe we've
gone too far. Like, these are big
trends, but how big are they? And it's
really hard to quantify. And what's
striking to me though is like how
quickly it felt like we went from, hey,
Meta, these tech companies are paying
hundreds of millions of dollars, even
billion dollar pay packages for AI
researchers, AI talent, and then
recently the journal reported that Meta
is freezing. It's it's hiring in terms
of AI and it just feels like we went
from like I don't know a couple weeks.
Yeah.
>> Right. Right. It was just so abrupt.
>> Yeah. It's strange and it's kind of hard
to know what to read into that as an
investor. Does that mean, okay, we're
good to go. Like, we're ready for this
AI boom. Does it mean we've gotten a
little bit out over our skis? It's hard
to know, but we do have Nvidia earnings
coming up, right?
>> Yeah. And I mean, in in recent quarters,
that has just been like the financial
markets Super Bowl. And I think that's
going to be a key indicator for for
where this trade really goes next. I do
want to point out though that even
though we have had a little bit more
volatility recently, like the S&P 500 is
still not too far from its record,
right? like this really hasn't been a
big drop. We were just in such an
extended period of calm in the market
and AI has just led the market higher
for so many months that this this even
pullback in that sector seems
significant right now.
>> But there are other parts of the market
that are charging forward while AI is
pulling back. Talk a little bit more
about that because I know you've been
following it. Yeah, it's interesting
because we've seen, you know, the moves
on the surface in terms of the market
haven't been too big, but under the
surface, we have seen a little bit more
of a rotation, right, where tech has
been taking a backseat. You're seeing
other corners of the market like the
blue chip Dow has been outperforming the
NASDAQ, the S&P 500, which hasn't
happened a lot this year. You're seeing
stocks like Caterpillar and and you
know, those those industrials companies
kind of lead the way a little bit, which
has been interesting to see.
>> Yeah. I mean, these are sort of like the
solid backbone of the economy. Um, but
people have kind of left them on the
wayside as they've really charged
forward with the big seven, the
Magnificent Seven.
>> Exactly. It's like everyone's been
transfixed with tech, with AI, and now
all of a sudden like these unloved
corners of the market have have gotten a
little bit more love the past few days.
>> It'll be interesting to see how long
that lasts and whether Nvidia's earnings
reverses that yet again. I feel like
every time this happens the past few
years, people are like, "Oh, this is the
start of a big rotation." And then tech
ends up leading the way once again. So,
we'll see this time.
>> I mean, it is a big source of growth, so
it's hard to overlook. Um, but, you
know, people do get nervous about um
overdoing it. I think
>> on this show, we've been talking a lot
to investors Sebastian Paige, Imran Khan
of Prom Asset Management about like, are
we in a bubble? Has the speculation gone
too far? And even when people are
saying, "Hey, there's reasons to be
cautious," it's just so so tough to time
the end of the bubble. Like it's it's
basically impossible to do, right? So I
think even people who are cautious are
finding it tough to bet against the AI
trade. Totally. I mean, if you're
cautious, you're leaving a lot of money
on the table over the last few months.
Well, one area of the market where
there's still a lot of uncertainty about
valuations is retail. And that's what
we're talking about in today's
interview. you know, tariffs have been
had a huge impact on retailers and a lot
of that has yet to show up. Um, at
Target, you know, we saw that company
name a lifelong employee to the role of
CEO. The company also reported its
second quarter earnings, which were
really somewhat disappointing. shares
skidded and their same store sales or
comps, also known as comparable sales,
which measure sales at locations and
digital channels that are open at least
a year, actually fell for the 11th
straight quarter.
>> 11th straight quarter.
>> Well, 11th straight quarter of flat or
falling comps. So, that was not a good
sign. Um Target's one of those ones that
isn't, you know, it's not just tariffs,
but it's a lot of things that are kind
of like contributing to their malaise.
>> On the other hand, we saw Walmart, which
is taking share. Its comps rose 4.6%.
So, it's doing better and it's already,
you know, pushed through some price
increases related to tariffs. It did say
that more price increases are to come,
but I think what the company's been
doing is passing along some portion of
the price increases and absorbing the
rest of them hoping that it can make it
up in higher sales and like its pricing
hasn't risen as fast as others. And so
that's sort of been Walmart's strategy
which seems to be working.
>> You are the private equity expert, but I
also think of you as like our retail
expert because you used to cover retail.
>> I used to cover retail for the Wall
Street Journal's heard on the street
column. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So I'm curious like what is your
take on how healthy the US consumer is
in light of some of the retail earnings
that you've seen so far and and the
conversation that you had on retail
recently? Like I think that's the big
question for the economy right now,
right?
>> I think it is, but you know I always go
back to you know the mall being such a
ruthless place for companies like it's
just hard to survive as a mall retailer.
you know, we've seen so many of them
like go out of business
>> and they've had to close a lot of
stores. So, the question is like which
ones are actually primed to do well in
this environment and it's really hard to
know ahead of time. And so, I think
investors are going to be watching these
earnings really closely to see like who
is hitting it right, who's getting the
fashion right, the inventory management
right, and the pricing right.
>> And you touched on that a little bit in
your conversation with our guests this
week, right? That's right. I spoke with
Adrien Ye, senior retail analyst at
Barclays. And just a heads up before we
get to that, Barclays has a financial
relationship with a lot of the companies
that come up in the interview. Those
include Lululemon Athletica, the Gap on
holding, TJ Maxx, Burlington, and Urban
Outfitters. It has a short position on
American Eagle Outfitters, and a long
position on Abbercrombian Fitch.
>> And that's coming after the break.
We're back with Adrien Ye, senior retail
analyst at Barclays. Thanks for joining
us, Adrien.
>> Thank you very much for having me.
>> Uh, so I'm going to dive right into the
big topic. You know, retailers,
particularly apparel retailers, are some
of the most affected by tariffs because
of the amount of their products that
comes from overseas. How much has that
shown up in their pricing so far? And
then, you know, conversely in their
stock. So the interesting thing we keep
talking about this year as the year of
you know two halves. The first half
we've seen no tariff impact. We've seen
a lot of tariff discussion but
effectively no impact on the health of
the consumer on the prices in the
landscape and they've put up great
numbers. So if you were to look at the
first half of this year the US consumer
is by and large extraordinarily healthy.
And so as we go into the kind of the the
bulk of the earnings that are about to
come, you're going to see that most of
them are beating the second quarter. To
your question about when these prices
went through, they just started. They
literally just started coming through.
The prices started going up on 71, so
July 1st, and they are largely in there
sort of as we go into the August time
frame, but not everybody has taken them.
They're trying to do the initial phase
of the April 2nd tariffs. They're trying
to do them in all manner except to raise
prices. So, you're going to start to see
people on this second wave of them
really need to raise those prices, but
the consumer is just starting to see
that price increase probably like low
single digit. Um, but they're going to
start to see it as they go shopping for
back to school. And that's going to be
the first time where they have that like
shock, right, when they go to the to to
check out.
>> And when you say in all manner besides
raising prices, what are other things
that they're doing? So the first and
easiest one, right, would be just, oh,
pass it on to the consumer, but that's
the one that no retailer really loves to
go after, right, because there's an
elasticity issue there. And so the first
thing they do is they go back to their
vendors, the contract manufacturers, and
everybody at every point in the supply
chain, and they ask for, "Can you give
me a little here? Can you give me a
little there?" That's the smallest part
of the entire kind of retail price. So
they're not working with a lot of give.
the margins are very thin down at that
manufacturing side. The second mitigan
would be that if you are a
multinational, just don't ship it here.
If you make it in China, ship it to
Europe. So that's a very easy way. So
those companies that are 30 40% non US
can do that. But if you're 100% US, you
absolutely can't do that.
>> You don't have that option. Interesting.
So among the retailers reporting this
coming week are American Eagle, The Gap,
and Abbercrombie and Fitch. How much can
we expect them to say on their earnings
calls about these planned price
increases?
>> So each one of them uh had reported
their first quarter before we obviously
got well all of them will have right
>> so they've said nothing yet about
>> about the second wave.
>> So about the first wave they've said oh
we're using all these different things.
Um, GAP particular in particular said we
at the first pass of this don't want to
raise prices and we'll do everything we
can not to raise those prices. They
probably won't be able to do that on the
second second wave. Um, and so most of
these companies are going to have
probably I mean if you think about it it
was 30% exposure to China which most of
these companies have less than 10%
exposure to China except for American
Eagle that has about 20. And the rest of
the their their product was made in
global minimum 10% places. Well, the
places that they make them are Vietnam,
India, Cambodia, right? Those are all
now 20 minimum 20%. Wow. So, this is a
doubling of what we had then heard. Um,
again, they will have implemented some
of these price increases. And the other
thing to think about is as they go to
guide right for this calendar year, the
second wave of these that are not going
to impact them because there's a grace
period. Anything that arrives here
before October 5th is is going to be in
the first wave of tariffs.
>> Oh, I didn't realize that. Wow. So, when
will we see the price increases?
>> Spring of next year. And this is the
gift that keeps on giving. So, it's
really
>> We're not out of the woods for a while
on this. Yeah. the I think that the the
worst impact to the consumer is actually
going to be in spring of 2026 and all
the way it's going to hang with us until
the rest of the back to school of 2026
>> and we won't really see this priced into
the stocks then until we see how well
they do on those on taking those price
increases or how does it work
>> so the stock market is very savvy right
the stock market is a forward
prognosticator of what they think will
happen in six to nine months so I think
you are going to see from a stock
perspective For those of you who are
investing in the space, I think you're
going to see the worst of the stock
reactions as we come off of this current
quarter and then into the November
quarter, right? But I would definitely
keep my powder dry if I'm an investor
because at the end of the day, what we
also know is that calendar 26, those
numbers need to come down as well. By
the time you get to a calendar 26 full
year guidance, I think you're in the
clear. Absolutely in the clear from an
investing standpoint. So you know one
thing we hear about in other industries
is companies like stockpiling goods at
the previous price. Can inventory
management be a lever that you know
these retailers use to mitigate tariffs
in the short term or how does that work?
>> So in the short term absolutely but the
key thing here is you have to have
evergreen product that you have every
faith in the world that the fashion is
not going to change. So we've seen the
hardline or the furniture companies do
this with much more success. They turn
their inventory a couple times a year,
right? The apparel retailers, we've seen
them try to do some of this. It is a
very dangerous game. You're turning
>> because of the fashion risk.
>> Because of the fashion risk. So, if you
were trying to bring in inventory,
you know, in April or May, you haven't
had $1 of what we call fall demand. I
mean, you could stockpile denim all you
want, but as we know, the denim even
shifts, right? The leg opening, the
rises, and all those types of things. At
the end of the day, a retailer is
already guessing six to nine months out.
Now you want to guess a year out. And
packing away product is never a good
idea because the fashions do even on a
guaranteed item like denim, they
actually do change a little bit and the
and the taste kind of shift away.
>> And getting the fashions wrong could
hurt you more than the tariffs.
>> Absolutely. Yeah. Right. The worst thing
you could do is end up with a bunch of
widelegg denim when skinny leg came
back.
>> Oh man, it's hard to be a fashion
retailer. Um, so you know, speaking of
selling, we're in the midst of the
all-important back to school season
right now. How important is that for
these retailers and kind of what can we
read into it?
>> It's extraordinarily important. It's
second only to holiday. You have to get
these kids in clothes, you know, before
they go to school. So, there's kind of
we like that kind of deadline because
they can't really wait forever for the
the great price. Although, we are seeing
it very promotional already. Everybody's
trying to kind of get ahead of each
other.
>> Not a great sign, I guess.
>> Yeah. They want they want to scoop up
the dollars. And we saw that with Amazon
Prime Day going a week earlier. They
want to when you think the consumer is
somewhat tenuous on the horizon, you
want to get to their dollar spend before
somebody else does. So, it's not even
competing, you know, teddy to get
apparel to apparel. It's just for the
the the dollar the dollar spent. Um, so
you know it's extraordinarily important
and I would say there's a high high
correlation between how you perform in
back to school and how you perform in
holiday. So if you're investing in the
space, what I would say is look to those
retailers who are going to tell you and
urban outfitters, right? The Hollister
component of Abbercrombie that are
tapestry coach just reported a great
quarter. Um those are the companies on
running that are telling you the cons
the consumer wants my product and
they're willing to pay full price for it
and then what happens is the kids ask
for gift cards from those hot brands and
then they end up getting a good holiday
>> and that drives the holiday sales.
>> Yeah. So it's very virtuous.
>> Interesting. So we can kind of see who's
gotten the fashion right at this moment.
So that's something to look out for in
these earnings. We we always say from an
investing standpoint or watching these
companies is play the momentum from back
to school the holiday. The stocks will
get more expensive. Those who have it
have it. So don't try to kind of break
with that momentum and then try to buy
the cheap one that looks like it's down
and out.
>> It's cheap for a reason.
>> Correct. That's absolutely correct.
>> So interesting. Um are there any
retailers that could benefit during a
time of rising prices? Like what about
the discounters? So there are two
reasons why a consumer will spend money
while under seemingly duress. Inflation
being the the the stress point. Um
number one, they really want it. The
brand's so like on running, right?
They're running a marathon. The it's 170
bucks. It was 160. You will buy that
shoe, right? Because you need it. The
other reason that consumers when they
feel like they have less spending power,
they want value. So the off-pricers are
uniquely positioned from two fronts.
Number one, they're creating value. And
I don't mean cheap. Value is very
different than cheap. Value is price
paid for quality received. $10 when you
when you're paying that for something
you think is worth 20 is different than
paying $10 for something you think is
worth five, right? And so TJX,
Burlington, Ross are uniquely positioned
to create this value. On the other side,
they're also uniquely positioned from
all this dislocation in the inventory.
It arrives at the wrong time. You've
frontloaded the wrong stuff. You're
competing really hard and you can't sell
all the stuff cuz somebody undercut you
on pricing. They're uniquely positioned
as the cleanup crew on the back end of
this.
>> So, they're they're getting whatever
merchandise kind of falls through the
cracks and doesn't sell or was too
expensive to begin with.
>> Exactly. So these tariffs are somewhat
unprecedented in history, but is there
any other comparable period of time that
investors should look to for a sense of
like what we're heading into here? So I
the lake period that I want people to go
and analyze is actually the cotton
inflation bubble of 2011
and in um it was the back end of 2010.
So within six months from like August uh
in the back of 2010 to March the peak
spot cotton went up 300%. And in March
the companies were forced to lock it in
because they had to manufacture their
product for the fall season. So they all
locked in this price point, particularly
the denim retailers and Eagle and
Abberrombie and Urban Outfitters a gap,
right? They were forced to actually
raise their prices on these goods by
about 10%. The cost of the inventory
went up by 15%. We're getting to those
numbers. We just published, you know, a
note that said at these new levels, the
cost of inventory is going up between 10
and 15%. And the pass through that would
offset that fully is 8 to 10%. Wow.
>> So, we're getting very close to those
numbers that I said would probably pop
up more so like in the spring time
period.
>> The irony of it is you generate sales.
You actually gen these companies
generate positive comp sales. And so, if
they needed 10% and they generate a 5%
comp, we're taught in retail to be very
happy that we're generating sales,
right?
>> So, it's kind of like a false positive,
>> right? And but the difference between
needing to pass through 10% and only
getting 5% will be will show up on their
margins on their earnings.
>> That's a lot. Yeah,
>> that's a lot.
>> Yeah.
>> So, as an investor, you kind of have to
be wary of that.
>> Correct.
>> Yeah. I mean, yeah, positive comps seems
great for a retailer because it's not
always a given.
>> That's that's like the lesson number one
is if they're positive comping, you want
to own them, right? Except in this case.
Except right now you they have to be
doubly positive comping or something
like that. Yeah.
>> Um so in the years leading up to the CO
19 pandemic there was kind of like a
steady increase in the percent of
shopping that was done online. Where are
we now? Because I know that during COVID
you know you know obviously nobody was
going to the mall but then right after
everyone went to the back to the mall
when everyone back went back to shops
because it was there was this kind of
joy of being back in society. Where are
we now in terms of this breakdown
between shopping online and shopping in
stores? And what does that mean for
margins?
>> In my discretionary apparel footwear
space, I would say just split it down
the middle and that's where we're kind
of, you know, simmering.
>> Moving toward 50/50.
>> Yeah, we're moving toward 50/50. We've
got companies that are, you know, north
of 45%. Urban Outfitters, Lululemon,
right? There are companies that started
as brick and mortar and are really,
really close to that 4050 number. I
would say where we are generally is
mid30s pushing on the, you know, getting
to the high 30s, but I would say at this
point it's kind of a steady march of a
couple percentage points of penetration
every year. And we talk about this as it
really is the way we want to shop. Yeah.
>> And so it's really the consumers that
are driving these companies to give us
more in the
>> And what about the store footprint? Are
are they still having to close physical
stores each of these companies or are
they at the right levels now? a lot more
people go to um you know lifestyle
center street locations and those but I
would say for the most part we're done
with the huge heavy you know single
brand store closures but what we're not
done with is concept closures so concept
closures are just like brands that
aren't going to work out right so so
like
>> if there are two brands in a in a
company
>> exactly or or even just like you know
companies that are hangers on from you
know post GFC. You know what we say
about the tariffs is we look at them and
our initial reaction is oh they're so
bad. Every company's like we don't like
tariffs, right? They're so bad. And at
the end of the day, they're the
universal equalizer of, you know, a
healthy landscape. At the end of the
day, what'll happen is those companies
who have 5% margins and have to eat 300
basis points of tariffs aren't going to
be around,
>> right?
>> And those who have 15% margins and eat
3% will go to 12. And then in two years
they will have a healthier landscape
where the bad performers aren't
constantly liquidating goods in front of
them.
>> Right. It's such a fascinating industry.
We're going to have one more question
with Adrien Ye after the break.
We are back with Adrien Ye, senior
retail analyst at Barclays. Um Adrien,
in 30 seconds or less, which retailer do
you think has the most pricing power
right now? Oh, you know what? It's
OnRunning. Um, they are so early stage.
So, I I don't know if everybody's
familiar with On-Running, but they are a
nent shoe, running shoe, premium running
shoe that kind of really came to the
forefront sort of during the COVID
pandemic when everybody was sort of
running or walking. Um, I would say they
have so much uh kind of momentum right
now. They only have about 29% aided
brand awareness here in the United
States. I think people are still
discovering them. Um, and at the end of
the day, the the use case for them is
actually to run a marathon. So, people
aren't going to skimp on on pricing when
it comes to kind of their their sporting
endeavors typically.
>> Awesome. Thanks so much.
[Music]
>> I mean, you still see Chico stores
around. You still see Tell
>> My grandma shopped in Chico.
[Music]